---
title: 'Qin Shi Huang'
date: 2025-03-27
permalink: /shi_huangdi/
tags:
  - history
---
In the year 232 BCE, a 19 year-old Chinese man would know only war. He would not even know the name China. Under the oppression of the Warring States period, he may only guess at vague similarities between his nation and its neighbors. He would be raised to regard them as barbarians. If he were not a resident of Zhao or Qin, as an estimated 25-30 million weren’t, he would be entirely unaware of a coronation fourteen years prior that resulted in the rearrangement of the known world. Him and everyone else that lived in the Warring States period could not foresee, after two centuries of constant conflict, the same air that hung over their great-great-great-grandfathers’ heads dissipating. Yet before his 30th birthday, his kingdom would be unified with the six others, his culture assimilated with that of the other six barbarians. Before his 37th birthday, the Great Wall of China would be built. China would be named. Along with it, Qin Shi Huang would coin the title of ‘Shi Huangdi.’ Chinese monarchs would bear it for the next two thousand years. 
	
## The Circumstances of Qin Shi Huang’s Birth

The only certainty in the account of Qin Shi Huang’s parentage is that he was born to a merchant’s concubine. However, the historical consensus is that his father was Ying Yiren, grandson of King Zhaoxiang of Qin. This lineage did little in the way of nepotism for Qin Shi Huang, as Yiren was one of twenty-odd grandsons bestowed to King Zhaoxiang by his heir apparent, and of these grandsons, the least popular. Nonetheless, Qin Shi Huang, born Ying Zheng and in exile from Qin, was a Qin man. 

A century before his birth, ~360 BCE, statesman Shang Yang would enact a series of political reforms that would transform Qin, originally the least powerful of the Warring States. Landowners in Qin were stripped of their fiefdoms, including many officials, nobles, and even royalty, to the horror of other Kingdoms. This policy aimed to turn Qin into a meritocracy. However, what constituted “merit” in Qin incited fear in the six other states. Shang Yang’s legalist state designated a system of ranks that citizens would climb by turning in the heads of enemies or reporting treason to the state. Communities of families were formed in place of fiefdoms, where if a family was arrested of a crime against the state without being reported, the other families in the community would be punished to the same extent. Murder and snitching were necessary to earn food and land. All six other states joined in an alliance against Qin. 

Fearing the barbarous police-state, the influential neighboring kingdom of Zhao entered a truce with the aggressive King Zhaoxiang of Qin. The First Emperor’s father was considered so unimportant by King Zhaoxiang, his grandfather, that he was sent as collateral to Zhao in this truce. 
Ying Yiren was raised in Handan, the Zhao capital. At a young age Yiren met a cunning merchant rather sick of his status, named Luu Buwei. The ancient Chinese class system was not ordered by wealth but rather honor, with merchants as the lowest class. Luu Buwei saw an opportunity in Yiren’s position. He approached Yiren and made him an offer: I will raise you, and make you King of Qin, asking only in return for a place in your cabinet. Yiren obliged.

In spite of his concubines’ immense success, Yiren’s father, Ying Zhu, failed to conceive a child with his wife. This left Ying Zhu next in line for the crown of Qin without a desirable heir. Luu Buwei went to Qin, recognizing that if the infertile Lady Huayang adopted Yiren, he would be second in line for the crown. He bribed himself into a meeting with Lady Huayang’s sister. Then he went to her brother. Luu Buwei’s arguments were sufficiently convincing enough that the siblings advised the queen of adoption Yiren the next day. Luu Buwei returned to Handan, where his prince-to-be remained. To celebrate the adoption, Luu Buwei threw a party where a dancer caught the eye of Yiren. Yiren asked Luu Buwei who she was, to which he was informed she was one of Luu Buwei’s concubines. To Luu Buwei’s surprise, Yiren asked for his blessing to marry her. Begrudgingly Luu Buwei consented, knowing a refusal would render the progress being celebrated pointless. This concubine would go unnamed in the annals of Chinese history. She is referred to only as Lady Zhao, after her state of origin. But while Yiren and Lady Zhao were celebrating their betrothalment, Qin and Zhao went to war.\
[More on the Battle of Changping here](https://damauried.github.io/changping/)

Despite the truce between them, King Zhaoxiang was moved to war with the King of Zhao after he accepted 17 cities from the state of Han, which Zhaoxiang sought to invade. Honored Zhao general Lian Po was ordered to move his forces into Han territory, where he put his army on the defensive. After a few months, the King of Zhao grew impatient, asking Lian Po to attack Qin. At the same time, Qin spies infiltrated Zhao and spread propaganda in favor of a younger, more aggressive general, Zhao Kuo, who had once defeated Qin. This sowed enough discord that Lian Po was recalled and replaced by Zhao Kuo. As soon as Zhao Kuo moved the army from their defensive lines, Qin forces surrounded them, cutting off their supply lines. The Zhao forces resorted to cannibalism after 40 days. At some point, Zhao Kuo died. King Zhaoxiang then ordered that a recorded 400,000 Zhao soldiers be buried alive, sparing only 250, such that they could tell of what they had seen. Today Changping residents are still discovering sites of mass graves.

A few months later, the First Emperor was born Ying Zheng. Soon after, as retribution for their insolence, King Zhaoxiang laid a siege upon Handan, where his estranged prince-hostage grandson and great-grandson still resided. The siege was cruel. For the first three years of Ying Zheng’s life he was surrounded by families that were trading children to cannibalize. Meanwhile, Yiren and Luu Buwei escaped to Qin to secure Yiren’s place as the crown prince. 

## The Lao Ai Drama

After seven years, they succeeded. Ying Zheng was left in the capital, under the care of a Zhao government immensely resentful towards him. After the Battle of Changping, they harbored ill will to anyone connected to Qin, let alone Qin royalty. It made no difference that Zheng was born in Zhao to a Zhao woman; even possibly the son of a Zhao man. Some accounts suggest that when Yiren met Lady Zhao she was already pregnant with Luu Buwei’s child. However, all of these accounts come from the Han dynasty that followed the Qin dynasty, which harbored their own resentment towards Qin, especially Qin Shi Huang himself. 
	
Irregardless of who his father was, Ying Zheng was made crown prince when peculiarly, three days after his father was coronated prince himself, King Zhaoxiang died. Yiren fulfilled his deal with Luu Buwei and made him prime minister. But even more peculiarly, Yiren would pass away three years later. The widowed Lady Zhao was made Queen Dowager. At the age of thirteen Ying Zheng would become king of Qin, but because of his age he held a negligible margin of power. Until Ying Zheng came of age, Luu Buwei ran Qin. Modern historians speculate as to the involvement of Luu Buwei in this quick transition to power, as he would hold power over Qin for the next nine years.

Luu Buwei had to maintain his position carefully. Widowed, his former concubine was now coming back unto him, and he feared public scandal. Clever as ever, Luu Buwei heard tell of a man, Lao Ai, infamous for his giant penis. Sima Qian’s Shiji records that Luu Buwei instructed:
	
``“Lao Ai to stick his penis through the centre of a wheel made of paulownia wood, [then] had him walk about with it, making certain that the report of this reached the ears of the queen dowager so as to excite her interest.”``\

She was duly excited. Lao Ai was falsely accused of a crime, had his eyebrows and eyelashes plucked, then had a mock circumcision to give the appearance of a eunuch. Soon Lady Zhao was satiated, and her advances on Luu Buwei halted. She gave Lao Ai the title of Marquis to a fiefdom before bearing two of his children. 

A drunk Lao Ai told a party that he was Ying Zheng’s stepfather, later implicating himself in a plot to replace Ying Zheng with one of the two sons. The conspiracy unfolded in 238 BCE when Lao Ai stole the Queen Dowager’s seal to incite a rebellion. Ying Zheng’s army slaughtered hundreds of Lao Ai’s rebels, but the man himself escaped. 

A bounty of a million coins was put on his head, and when he was found, Lao Ai was torn into five pieces by five carriages. His entire family, including the two stepbrothers of Ying Zheng, were executed. Lady Zhao was put up in the court until her death; she would not see China’s unification under her son. Luu Buwei, in spite of playing no part and attempts to quell the rebellion, was shunned for his part in instating Lao Ai and exiled. Luu Buwei commit suicide by drinking poison.

