---
title: 'Why the United States Supports Israel'
date: 2025-03-28
permalink: /us_israel/
tags:
  - history
  - politics
  - mini-essay
---
## Why the United States Supports Israel
*this is an organization of my thoughts on a segment of a Noam Chomsky lecture. [Watch it here.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lUQ_0MubbcM)*

In his answer to the question, Noam Chomsky starts by speaking to "Christian Zionism," suggesting there was a non-Judeo interest in the establishment of a Jewish nation-state. Woodrow Wilson, sitting president at the time of the Balfour Declaration, was a devout Christian. As were Truman and Roosevelt, notably the presidents during WWII. Roosevelt's Secretary of the Interior, Harold Ickes, described the return of the Jews to Palestine as the greatest event in history. British and American officials considered the establishment of Israel as a sacred homeland to the Jews, as Chomsky puts it, the "realizing the lesson of the Bible." Undoubtedly in a Christian-moralist United States, there was a religious basis for the return of the Twelve Tribes of Israel, not even to mention a moral basis for a Jewish nation post-Holocaust.

However, Chomsky uses an important phrase, particularly one word, to describe the establishment of Israel—  he refers to it as the "Jewish *colonization* of Palestine." Besides the British and United States (the British Foreign Secretary visited Washington D.C. and New York the summer before the Balfour Declaration) support of Israel, Chomsky examines the support from Australia and Canada. What the U.S., Australia, and Canada have in common is their origin as offshoots of the British Empire; They are all within the Anglosphere, and all slaughtered native populations for their expansion. Israel was established by British decree, and viewing the nation as a part of the Anglosphere, it becomes clear Israel is the latest development in British imperialism.

Palestine's geography encouraged this development. An otherwise entirely Arabic nationalist region, the Middle East had been an issue, even *the* issue, for the United States long before and after Israel's colonization of Palestine. This importance was clarified recently, perhaps most explicitly, in Bush's invasion of Iraq. 

Chomsky points out three examples to this end. First, in 1948, the State Department was reluctant to support Israeli conquest of Palestine. The Pentagon, however, was impressed by the Israeli military's operations in Palestine. While the State Department deliberated over the refugee question, Pentagon staff reported that Israel had the largest military force in the region, second only to Turkey. The Intelligence community figured that Israel could become a base for U.S. operations in the Middle East. A decade later Israel proved them right when they were the only nation to support U.S. intervention in Lebanon, to which Israel was sent plenty of arms. The last example Chomsky gives is the 2014 invasion of Gaza, when at the expenditure of their firepower (as Noam points out, "despite the fact [they were] armed to the teeth") Israel relied on U.S. munitions. This time arms were not sent, but rather taken from U.S. stockpiles prepositioned in Israel.

Israel is predicated on a familiarly violent imperialism as a colonial offshoot of the British Empire, and a technologically unprecedented one as a military foothold of the largest military in the world. As the United States, Canada, and Australia exterminated indigenous people, Israel will never be established without the extermination of Palestinians. The United States' interventionist policy has not changed since the Lebanon crisis. Rather, post-[AUMF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authorization_for_Use_of_Military_Force_of_2001), it has grown and with it the incentive for a military foothold in the region. This imperialism is underpinned by a religious doctrine in support of a Jewish ethnostate, that whether still prevalent or not has shaped foreign policy for a century now. The United States will not cease to support the genocidal policies it supplied and itself was built on. Gaza is not a matter of U.S. policies, but of U.S. interests.
